<INGREDIENTS>

- Shiratamako (sweet rice flour): 1 cup (about 100g)
- Water: Less than 100cc
- Kuromitsu (brown sugar syrup) and Kinako (soy bean flour): Appropriate amount

<PREPARATION>

1. Making the dough

　The amount of water you should add to a cup of shiratamako is less than 100cc. A cup of shiratamako is approximately 100g, which means the flour and water is about the same amount. However, be careful not to add too much water. You can have a better texture when the amount of water is moderate.

　Inside the bowl, add the water little by little to the flour at first so that it mixes well with the flour. When the water is well blended in the flour, knead the dough firmly and then form the dough into a big round ball. At this point, the lump of dumpling is a little harder than an earlobe, and it should not be too soft that it droops down.

2. Making the shiratama dango

　Next, form the dough into a shape of a rod and divide them into small pieces of the same size. When the amount of water in the mixture is right, it doesn’t stick to your hands and it is easy to divide.

　To make the dumplings, place the small dough on your palm and clasp tight first, and then form them into small balls using both of your hands. Lastly, make a dent in the middle to make oval-shaped dumplings. This will help cook the center of the dumplings. It is better to shape the dumplings in the same sizes in order to cook them evenly. Therefore, do not boil the dumplings as you shape them, shape all the dumplings first and then go to the boiling process.

3. Boiling the shiratama dango

　Heat water in a pan and add the dumplings when it is at a boil. After adding the dumplings, stir the pan with a rice paddle or alike and wait until they float.

　Boil over a high heat for 2 to 3 minutes and gradually the dumplings will start to float. When all the dumplings have floated, boil 1 minute more to make sure and remove the dumplings from the pan and cool them in cold water.



In the summertime, shiratama dango is chilled and served with sweet azuki beans or with kinako and kuromitsu.